Hey what's up everyone and welcome to this Quarto Crash Course.
So in this video we will start with the absolute basics.
What is Quarto? Why should you use it? How do you set up and install Quarto?
And then throughout the video we will showcase a lot of the features and
functionality of Quarto. And we'll end with some more advanced
topics. Overall there should be something in
this video for everyone whether you're a complete beginner
or you use Quarto as an integral part of your day-to-day workflows.
The goal of this video is to have something for everyone
to present interesting and useful concepts about Quarto
in a succinct manner. A timeline for this video can be seen on the screen
as well as in the video description. Feel free to jump around,
watch what you want, skip sections, do whatever. Let's jump right into it.
Alright to start what is Quarto and why should you use it? Well the way that I
like to think about Quarto is that as developers as data scientists we
typically have a way that we like to edit and run code and run analyses
and that might include using like you know VS Code, writing Python scripts,
writing code in Jupyter notebooks, etc. And these
formats they're great for us but they're not always the most friendly
to less technical people, business stakeholders, etc. So where
Quarto comes in is that it's an open source scientific and technical
publishing system that's all based around these Quarto
markdown files. So with Quarto you can ultimately output these Quarto markdown
files into very digestible formats such as
slideshows, HTML websites, PDF analytics reports,
dashboards, etc. So you can really bridge the gap between
yourself as a data analyst, data scientist, software engineer
and these stakeholders.
So let's see how we can install Quarto then we'll walk through a couple of
markdown basics before getting into Quarto specific markdown and the
features you have access to when you use Quarto and VS Code.
To get started with Quarto you can look up Quarto install,
click on the get started page. The URL is quarto.org
slash docs slash get dash started. There's a few ways to set up Quarto.
One is you can download the Quarto CLI, install it
and then you should have access to the command line interface
and then I recommend clicking on the VS Code option
to follow how to set up the extension. Alternatively you can use a
terminal and I'd recommend creating a virtual environment.
So I'm going to create one in my EMS directory called
Quarto. I'm going to go ahead and activate that so I can do that by
doing source. I think I can just do with a Mac
I think I can just do EMS Quarto bin
activate. I might actually have to do source first.
So now we see that we have activated the Quarto
virtual environment and I can then go ahead and do a pip
install Quarto dash CLI.
So either install Quarto using this button right here
or you can do it the terminal way I just shared.
Once you've done that go to a directory that you want to edit some Quarto
related code. So I'm going to do that in a directory
I have called code. Then I have a directory called Quarto
and then I'm going to navigate into this folder I have called Quarto
crash course. I've shared some code on GitHub that is related to this
crash course. You can feel free to check out the link in the YouTube video
description. Keith Galley slash Quarto dash crash
course to find a bunch of information on Quarto. I've linked that in the
description. But you also are free to work wherever
it makes sense to you. And then I'm going to open this up in
VS Code by doing code dot slash.
Okay so now I'm in my Quarto crash course
directory. So what we're going to want to do is we're going to want to install
first the Quarto extension. So you can open up your
Quarto extensions. You can look up so on MacBook you can do command shift
x to open this window. You can also go up to the top
go to view and then click on extensions to also open this.
And you're going to look up Quarto. Click on it
and make sure to have this installed. Then we're going to go back to our
our folder and we're going to create a file
called Quarto. Or how about we just call this
index dot QMD. QMD stands for Quarto Markdown.
And it is the format that we use to generate all the different formats
that Quarto can ultimately output. To confirm you have everything
set up correctly you should be able to do something like
title.
You can just follow my lead here.
And then add some markdown.
And to confirm that everything is installed correctly you should have this
little option over here on the top right if you're using VS Code.
There are other code editors that you can use.
As we can see on this screen feel free to look at the option that makes most
sense to you. You might click on this text editor
option if you don't see something listed and
there'll be a few different other options there.
If you are using VS Code though we should see this VS Code Quarto extension up
here on the top right. And if you don't see it you can click on
the top right, click that,
and we should see our Quarto over here.
Let's start this tutorial by really quickly talking about
a markdown. So right now we've already set up some
basic Quarto Markdown but we'll start by just
looking at markdown. So this first thing that we see here in markdown is a
header. So this is an h1 tag. We specify that by doing
just one pound sign. We could also do slightly smaller headers by doing two
pound signs. We could do even smaller headers by
doing three pound signs and so on.
If I render this we see all of that. Other things that you can do in
markdown is a list of items.
You could also do numerical lists, a numbered
list. We could add hyperlinks by doing stuff like
this. We could add images by doing something like this.
You can look up markdown basics and you'll find all sorts of great
resources. I could do bold text. I could do italicized text.
So a bunch of things here. Go ahead and run this
and we see all this different stuff with our
basic markdown. If you are curious about markdown,
I recommend looking up markdown basics
Quarto and you should find a page that has a bunch of the different options
of markdown that you can use.
Markdown is pretty universal. There's slightly different flavors of
markdown but the base things that you see on the
screen right here will work in any sort of markdown renderer.
One place that you might have seen
markdown before is if you're ever working on a github
repo you'll probably have a readme file that looks like this. A cool thing is
if you ever like wanted to you could always render that with Quarto as well
just so you could see your readme in a nice clean manner.
Whereas sometimes looking at the the raw markdown can be a little challenging.
All right now that we've covered some basics of markdown let's actually get
into Quarto markdown specifically and why Quarto is so helpful.
So whenever you're starting up a Quarto markdown file I recommend starting with
these three dashes and I also recommend if you're using like Visual Studio Code
to close your three dashes. So right here in
between these dashes we can specify all sorts of YAML settings for
our Quarto markdown. So we can do things like specify an
author.
We can specify a title and we can see the reason that I like to have these
these fully closed is that you'll start getting autocompletes if you're using
VS Code. I will call this Quarto
Crash Course and then we can add a subtitle.
Perfect I'm using github copilot behind the scenes too that's how you're seeing
all these autocompletes. We can specify a date.
So it is 2024 11 11 right now as I record this.
Convenient for us here in the United States as well as
people abroad that use a different day and month orders here so I'm very
thankful that it works for all of us right now. Let's think of other things
like one thing I like too is like you can just kind of start typing something
so if you ever forget what an option is you know start
typing in what you might think it is and you can see all these nice helpful
autocompletes. But I think this is a good starting
point we have some settings here and we can go ahead and maybe add
a header. This is a quick guide to Quarto and I can render this.
We see that these YAML options gives us this nice
look to our rendered document and then we can include our standard
kind of markdown to render other elements.
One of the first things that you'll want to know about Quarto is that we have the
options to render all sorts of different types of
outputs with Quarto. So by default we're going to be rendering a html file
but I can very easily specify format and I can say something like
pdf and now if I run this
we see we have a pdf document here and it looks a little bit different but
nicely enough it still is formatting things.
I could specify a reveal.js format and if I add a little bit more
information
we can see that when this is rendered as a reveal.js format
it actually creates a slideshow.
We'll dive into the details of all these different formats in a little bit but
it's good to know that you have all these options.
Let's delete this real quick and we'll leave it as the default html format.
Another thing you'll start to notice is that we start adding all these files
over here and it can get a little bit messy if we
are generating tons and tons of different documents.
So one thing that I like to do is that you can specify this special kind of
project formatting file called underscore quarto dot yaml
and in it you can do project and you can do
output directory and I could specify specify something like outputs
and now when I run this index.qmd we'll see that instead of creating the
outputs in our you know standard
root directory it's actually putting them in this outputs folder.
So also move index.pdf there too. We also really start seeing the benefit
of quarto when we start seeing what types of things we can embed in our
quarto docs. So by including these three tick marks
so this is right above the tab mark on my keyboard
you can insert our code you could insert python code
you could insert julia code etc. So I'm going to insert some python
code so I'm going to add this brackets python and then I'm
going to close the brackets and I'll do something like you know print
hello world. I could make this even more fancy I could do something like for I
and range 10 print hello world. So nothing crazy.
I can run cell and we see we see 10 hello worlds. One thing that is cool is
I can go ahead and generate this as a quarto markdown
document or render it as html and we see now the code nicely formatted
and the output is embedded in our quarto doc.
So the combo of like using this markdown and also embedding
code and the output of the code such as visualizations
easily using this quarto markdown format is super super helpful. Some of the
features of quarto though you might not always remember
so one thing that I also like to highlight is that there's also a
visual editor. So if I right click I see that there's this option to edit in
visual mode. So this is available in VS Code. It might be
available on some of the other text editors as well
but I know that it works well here in VS Code.
So if I say edit in visual mode now I get this new interface that
is easy for me to do different things if I forget the
markdown specific syntax. So I could create a let's say
insert a new code cell. I could insert a table here so maybe I
wanted a three by three table with the caption example table.
We see we get something that looks like this
column one, column two, column three and I could add all sorts of
information into this table.
Look at that the alphabet. So tables I could also insert let's
say like I maybe I forgot how to insert an
image. I could you know very easily upload an image this way.
I could insert a citation. So this is pretty cool. So let's say you need to
cite an article or something. Oftentimes they have this doi link
so like in this tutorial specifically we will be
using some movie data set data and I originally got it from Kaggle.
So one thing that I could do via this
visual editor is I could open up chrome window. I could go to
the Kaggle data set that I got this from. So
type in Kaggle
and I specifically use this full tmdb movies data set. I'll make sure it's
linked in the github slash maybe the video description so that
you have access to this. But basically
there's this doi citation. I can copy this
digital object identifier. I can go back to my VS Code window.
I could paste this in and now we see that we have the option to embed
specifically this link. If I now insert that
we see that we have a citation and if I render this
we see we have our table. We have our citation that we just added
and we even get automatically this reference page.
So some of the stuff especially like the citations I feel like
I might not remember how to do exactly with the markdown specifically.
So this visual editor is super super helpful
and we can easily go back to the source mode by right clicking
and editing in source mode and we see we have things
that are added here nicely that might not have been
easy to do if you just were trying to memorize all the markdown.
You see that it also added this bibliography
page too.
One other really cool thing for Python developers out there or maybe anyone
that uses Jupyter notebooks is we also can edit our Cordo markdown
as a Jupyter notebook. So you can either start it as a Jupyter notebook or
one cool thing is that you can easily convert a existing
Cordo markdown file to a Jupyter notebook by doing
cordo convert index.qmd and now we see we have an index.ipython
notebook and so if you prefer to work with
IPython notebooks such as this you can easily
have a Jupyter notebook and you can even
render this Jupyter notebook. So if I added another code cell so
how about I did something like i equals zero
while i is less than 10 print instead of hello world how will we print
i. Some really exciting advanced code here.
Python environment.
Okay we have this and now I could go ahead and
with my terminal I could do cordo render and I can render this
index.ipython notebook and I do get
and we see our index.html. I guess it didn't output it in the
outputs folder that is kind of a standard way with our QMD.
There might be an additional setting that you can do to do that but it is
cool to know that you can directly output it via the IPython notebook
and if we look at it we do get all these code blocks.
For now I'm going to stay in working with the cordo markdown file so I'm going
to go ahead and delete this. I'll delete this index.html as well
and we'll stick with this index.qmd and I might clean up some of this stuff
temporarily.
Let's say we wanted to style certain sections of our
cordo document in one way and we wanted to style other sections in a different
way. We can use what is known as a fenced
div. So let's say we wanted to add some
custom styling to this second header and kind of that whole
section. A fenced div can be specified with any
number of colons. I think it's any number. It might need
to be three or more but as long as you match the colons
that's really what's most important and then within
this fenced div we can specify some classes. This is going to be a
class whatever our class name is and then we
also have access sometimes to these sometimes
classes and I'll specify when you don't use
the dot and when you use a dot. I think it's easiest to start with just
looking at using the dot. Well cordo gives us access to
some special things and the typical way that I figure
out what I have access to is that I could go to the
documentation and in the readme there's a page that
I find quite helpful which is
so if you look in the documentation you'll find
specific like options such as here we see an example of a
class called PanelTabSet and if we use this there's different types of built-in
classes so PanelTabSet is an example of a built-in
class. If we add that to our Visual Studio code
so let's do PanelTabSet and how about I
actually make this fenced div all of this.
Now what we're going to see if I run this
is two tabs set up as a panel so that's one built-in option
use the documentation to help you find these different built-in options that we
have available to us. Another thing we could have done is
let's say instead of using the PanelTabSet
how would I define a class is just called like
VeryRed so there's nothing actually called VeryRed so if I run this
like nothing happens when I surround it with VeryRed
but if I go ahead and add an additional file
so right now we have these files if I add an additional file called
styles.css and I define a html or I guess a css
class called VeryRed so I specify the class with the period
and I make the color red
and now if I run our file that is surrounded in the fenced div
with the class VeryRed
we see that it is not red and why is it not red
because we also need to specify css here and specify that file called styles.css
now if we rerun it
we see that it is VeryRed and you can do this
this is super super useful so if you ever need
custom formatting custom you know styling etc
leveraging some cascading style sheets some css
can be very very powerful and you can add you know classes here you could add
ids so I could do you know some other format here I could
make this like font style
italic and now if we look at this if I then surround it how about
this with id
some other format
and close it off with four we'll see that this gets italicized
so now it's italicized
and I think it's cool to understand what's happening under the hood
so under the hood if we look at our output file
in our index.html
we look for that second header so we have
the second header
or some more text and we see that this is given
the class level two and it's given the class VeryRed
we see that that whole section is encapsulated in this class that
includes the VeryRed that we specified if we
instead how about added an image so in here we added an image and maybe
if I'm lucky
maybe it will know a url of a shrek image
okay it doesn't but I can paste in a url of a shrek image
you can paste in a picture of shrek and if I run this
we see we got shrek there
and some text and one cool thing is that we can also maybe specify
the width equals how about 400 pixels we rerun this
we got a bigger shrek and I think the thing that's interesting here
is why we're able to do width 400 pixels instead of like dot
width or something like that 400 pixels and this kind of like I think a good
rule of thumb is that we can sometimes use a class
or like a an attribute without a period
if we're specific specifically wanting to
add that attribute to the ultimate like html that gets rendered
so what I mean by this is if we now look at the index.html
and we look at the picture of shrek that has been added
if we look at the image we see that it adds this width equals 400
as like its own attribute so instead of adding
like a class variable here it adds it specifically as width but I
could add my own class to the shrek image by doing
you know dot think that we need to specify classes and
ids first so I could do like shrek class
width equals 400 pixels if I render this look at my index.html we see that now it
has class shrek class so use this as you see
fit you can kind of style things specifically
you know based on this information and I think one thing to note is that
there's a lot of different ways and a lot of different like built-in
options that you can use with these fenced divs
for example if we were working off of a
reveal.js doc it's like a cool thing I can do with
the reveal.js with a fenced div is I could add a list
so if we look at this by default it looks like
looks like this but if I added a fenced div
with the class incremental
around this section and you could only you know you could
surround it by just around just the list I don't think that it will affect this
header at all we run that
or actually I guess I have to specify it right
around the list
we run that now it comes in at one at a time and if we looked at the
documentation for this and we looked up
reveal.js
we'll see that incremental is one of the options
that we have access to and if we went to how about reference
reveal.js one thing that you'll see as you start looking through the
documentation for whatever format that you're working off of is
you'll see some notes sometimes included so like
if we wanted to set the footer we can do that
using our top level yaml config but we also
can do it by setting like a fence div with
footer for example or a fence div with the
smaller class so we can see that real quick so I could add
a fence div with the smaller here in addition
so there's now two classes on this and if we looked at our
list it's a bit smaller than it was before so rerun that again
let's just double check
right around this whole section that's smaller
we're using four divs now or four colons to
say all of this is within the other stuff
so now we see that this is all smaller
if I remove this
it's going to be a bit bigger cool so that's fence divs this is you
know you know editing specific elements so in addition
to fence divs you could also edit things in such a manner called
a bracketed span so if you wanted to just edit like
some specific text
and you only wanted to make maybe this here
red I could do this and we see that that is specifically
red so you can do bracketed spans like this and customize
certain elements and attributes of that you could also add like a style
equals font size you know maybe it's very big here
like five that's probably too big 72 pixels
elements so you can do stuff like this
trying to think if there's anything else that's worthwhile talking about here
that's styling we'll spend another couple minutes real quick on
formatting as well building on this let's um remove this
all this code real quick and just have some
example headings and stuff like that so let's go ahead and do that
example headers again some cool things that you might want to do here with
fenced divs is a layout so we can do layout or we can do specifically layout
equals something like 30 and then 70 and how about the next one
is 100
so this is a special layout format and if I
close this and then I add three paragraphs of text
so this is what's some text about a cat
the cat
okay this is some text about a dog this will all make sense
in a second and then we added
okay so we have three paragraphs and we specified a layout for these three
paragraphs if we look at what this looks like
we see that we get it laid out in the page in a certain format this can be
very helpful if we want to like let's say instead of having this text
embed an image
I wonder if this image will actually appear and you can yeah just basically
showcase text and whatnot in a certain way
and we're still using the reveal.js format this
shows makes another probably option that's cool to see I could do
I could add a dot scrollable
I bet you that we'll see everything now
maybe not
but if we made this let's say back to the html format
we see that it is formatted with this specific format we can also add
things like do something specifically like
layout number of columns equals two and now what this will
basically do is it will keep two columns no matter how many paragraphs we
add
so I could just keep adding this is
you can just keep adding paragraphs
and what we'll see is it always formats it with two
columns so we see a bunch of different two column formatted things
you could easily change this to three columns
and it's formatted three columns you know four columns
etc so very very useful if you want certain things to wrap and
format always in a certain way so good to know basically I feel like if
you're looking for some sort of customization option it's there for you
you just have to sometimes do some browsing through the
documentation
you
real quick I want to touch on parameters with Cordo
as well as some CLI options that you have when you
want to render something dynamically in Cordo so if you go to
this Cordo web page docs computation slash parameters
you can find some information on both Jupyter based
execution and Knitter so whether you're using Python or R
as well as some information on what you can do
with these parameters but just see this in action real quick
if we want to add our own custom parameters so let's say we wanted to
generate reports and we wanted to switch up
variables for each execution of the report
we could add to our Cordo markdown this special parameters
tag
and then we could define custom variables like name equals Keith
and then maybe a data filter so in this video we are going to be doing some
stuff with movie a movie data set so you can
imagine that maybe you wanted to filter by
comedy or something and we can close this Python
cell and then later on and somewhere in our notebook we can utilize these
variables so I can very easily down here add
some more Python code
and I could maybe you know print my name
and print the data filter you could obviously do any sort of Python
execution with this but now we have the code that looks
like this
and if we run this right
we see that it says Keith and comedy and we see it prints out Keith and comedy
down here one thing that you might want to do
this is just a good to know is maybe you didn't want this code to
show you could add a echo is false
here and what that will do is it will hide all the code cells from
your doc
and so now we just see the output here you
also change it on a per code block basis by doing
the following so the pound sign and the pipe
is a special kind of syntax in Corto but I could add
echo is true here and so we will actually see these print
statements show up along with their execution
okay so we see that and now the cool thing is that I could go
ahead and I could run something like
corto render index dot qmd I can pass in parameters so maybe I wanted to set my
name to be something like Elizabeth
and maybe I wanted to set my other parameter to be
something like so we have this called data filter maybe I wanted it to be
actual you know drama movies so now if I run
this
we see we get a new output in index or output set index dot
html if I look at that file or actually it already re-rendered over here
we see Elizabeth and drama so you can run these and render these
corto markdown files with other parameters and this is really helpful
if you want to generate custom reports based on certain variables you can also
even though this is specified as html you can also use the command line
to do useful things like rendering it to a specific format so I
could do coro render index dot qmd to
pdf and we'll see a new pdf be generated in here
so if I open this up we see we get something like this
and we see that it you know can take those variables in as well
some useful simple command line interface options and parameters
one other potential thing you might want to do is in addition to specifying
these parameters you can actually via the cli change up some of these
metadata settings so I could do corto render index dot qmd
I could pass in this dash m and maybe I would
want to set a table of contents equals true in this
situation so we haven't actually seen this parameter
but if I now open up our index dot html we see that it gets this table of
contents I could also let's say maybe I wanted to
change the title of this so right now it's
saying corto crash course and maybe I wanted to change that to
so that's our title metadata parameter I'll make this a little bigger so
everyone can see
corto render index dot qmd I wanted to set the title
to how about and this might be a little bit interesting because we have spaces
in it so you might have to do quotes I'm not sure if this will work or
not we'll see you might actually have to surround all of this
in like quotes like this my fancy new title let's see if this works
open up the index dot qmd and look at that it does work so you can pass in
metadata as well useful stuff to know about
you
all right let's go ahead and talk about some more advanced things with the html
output format as well as publishing our html or any
corto files to a public place where you have a link
that you can share with your teammates to easily kind of
navigate data or some sort of dashboard or report so right now
I am working off of the github repo that is shared in the description
so that is github.com slash keith galley
slash corto crash course there's a bunch of qmd files and
whatnot in there you can check it out you can go ahead and
clone the repo and get all of this locally you also don't necessarily need
to work off of this but it has some helpful things such as
this helpers.py file that has just some code that I
wrote to visualize different graphs and whatnot using these
helpers.py we can start actually embedding you know
very useful analysis into our corto reports so there's a file
in here called html report dot qmd
if we go ahead and look at this we can see some pretty cool stuff
so I'm going to go ahead and run this and if you don't have all the
packages I recommend doing a pip install
dash r requirements and that's going to be based off of the requirements.txt
file in this repo so these are the
libraries so you'll need to have this requirements.txt file
locally for this to work but I do that it doesn't work for me
I guess I spelled I didn't add the txt here
cool now I can try running this file again
and we see we get a that's all sorts of analysis on a
movie data set so the data that we're they're talking about right here
is found in the data directory tmdb small so I mentioned previously in the
video that all this came from a Kaggle source
which can be found here and basically this tmdb small data set
that you see is all the movies from that data set
that have a thousand ratings or more have been kept and it just made the data
a lot more manageable to work with one cool thing you can do in base code
is I could preview this so we see what types of data that we
have in this data directory if we go back to our
html report we see that we load in that data
we see that we import some of our functions
from the helpers file and then we can go ahead and
utilize some of these functions
so let's look at what that looks like again so we see
our report over here and there's a combination of markdown as
well as you know the actual python code one
cool thing is like this plotly scatter plot is
interactive so you can do all sorts of cool things with it
we also see like for example for this python figure we've added some specific
features such as fig align center and fig
caption movie release year by release year distribution
if we run this we see that like that appears
here as well as it's centered on the screen
we can change up the size of the figure as well so that it doesn't overflow
or we could change up the martians or something but I think if we actually
just spread this out a little bit it will see it pretty much fully
we also see that we are both generating an html file
and a pdf file here so if i click on pdf
just from this html file alone you can generate the pdf
so this is cool because imagine you wanted to share this easily with a
teammate you could just generate the pdf share
but sometimes interactivity is very important
so like you wouldn't be able to interact with a plotly chart like this
if you only sent the pdf so that's where
hosting your corto markdown files on a place like
posit connect cloud can be very helpful you can click the link in the
description to get deposit connect cloud once you're there you'll show up to a
place like this you can sign up for free
you know I recommend signing up with your github and as long as the repo that
you're working off of to generate your qmd files is public
you can very easily connect it to posit connect cloud so I'm going to go
ahead and log in I'm logging into my github
and if I go ahead and click publish I want to publish specifically
corto I'm going to use the corto crash course repo
I'm working off of master right now and I can specify a primary file so in this
case would be html report dot qmd I can go ahead and publish
this and that will run some things
and just to see what that will look like I did this previously
and we see we get our report
you can play around with settings and like you know resize things as you need
but like cool like I could go ahead and just take this link right here
and I could share this with someone I'll even share it in the description
so that you can go ahead and like play around with these charts
so what's really cool about this is like we can see okay
uh some of the top movies all that I could zoom in see you know
more movies I could uh zoom out and maybe I just want to toggle
certain types of movies to show up here so maybe
I just wanted to do comedies
so uh there's one other and uh you know now I have just comedies here
I can see what the top comedies are as well as the worst comedies
epic movie the room uh pretty cool zoom in play around with
this and yeah you can share this with teammates
and they can also play around with it so super super helpful uh one thing that
I should mention though is that if you do have
a cordo.yaml
if you do have a cordo.yaml file in your directory
or in your repo that can sometimes cause issues when you
specify the primary file that you want to generate on posit connect cloud
um if you want only certain files to render you can
specify you know only render html report dot qmd or you could do like
you know render all
qmd files you could say don't render index dot qmd
there's a lot of different parameters that you can pass here and I think I
would actually have to surround this with quotes
um to only render certain files one other cool thing that we can do here
is another fenced div option in class that we have
is we can add this content visible when format equals html
fenced div around some of our code so like for example this plotly code
uh not super useful when we have a pdf report
so if I looked at the pdf report that was generated when we ran this code
we see that it doesn't include that plotly chart
a final thing about this html report thing that I wanted to share
is that you could actually use python inline
as well so like from our data frame we are grabbing
a random row from it we are grabbing a poster image
from that that is on the moviedatabase.org
that's where all the data comes from it's ultimately
aggregated from there and then moved to Kaggle
but we can get the movie image from there
and then like based on whatever row we got we can
dynamically you know set values set headers set bold text in our
rendered file just you know dynamically
so like I run it this time we see we get
american assassin if I run it again
we see we get this movie flatliners cool to be able to do that with this inline
python code
you
moving along we also have this file in this repo called pdf report
and I just want to show some additional things that you can do with static
documents so I've set it as a format pdf we see
that we get a document looking like this one thing
that I think might be useful is sometimes you'll want to
change up your text to be in columns so similar to what we showed earlier in the
video we could do something like you know add a
layout so this explicitly is meaning 33 percent
for the first column 66 percent takes up the second column
and then when we add items in that we have it take up those sizes
and in the the text here on the right we can
also like add certain classes like flush right
and add this data latex that allows us to
align our text to the right I run this you know we see that you know it is
taking up that space kind of how we expect
trying to think of other cool things here with pdf reports specifically
one thing that I find quite useful is being able to do
page breaks so if you look at the cordo documentation
there's some special syntax that we have available to us
so I'm going to go to overview or maybe guide
that's somewhere in here I think down over here in projects
there are some maybe uh environment variables is that one look
no not environment variables maybe in project basics
this is more on the cordo yaml file what you can do with that
somewhere in here we can find about uh
project scripts a lot of good stuff in here
maybe it's in advance actually okay yeah um
I think maybe it's in page layout
more useful stuff here
you can include content from other qmd files using this
include bracket still not finding what I want with the page break
I don't explicitly look up page break quarto
okay short codes it looks like we have some short codes that allow you to do
different things so like we see page break here
lets you separate pages I find that super useful
this looks like there is some useful stuff I guess this was just on the
markdown basics page
but if we look at what this does when we render it
so let's say I wanted to add a page break after
every like section so we have one there we have one there we have one there
um we could add one right here we're going to see all of our
sections is separated all of our headers separated by
pages with our pdf and the concept of pages only really makes sense
in when you have like a word document when you have
a pdf document so we see that it's kind of working as we expect
this code is not showing up because we have echo equal false but I could also
add the code to the screen doing echo true
so we see now we see the code alongside
the outputs
we could also generate a docx file here by doing format docx
if I run this
we now see in our output we have this docx and so
you can you know feel free to open that and
you know edit things as you need to so I could edit the text in here this is
great if you you know are working with someone else on
your team and you need to generate a template and
then they can fill in the rest of the details so maybe this was some
descriptive columns that they needed to fill out
they could edit the word doc and then go ahead and
you know save it as a pdf another thing you might want to do
is add a table of contents
we're going to change this back to a pdf
we see we get this pdf and one thing that's cool is it automatically knows
what page each things are on so I could click
on random movie goes down to the random movie section of
our document cool stuff word cloud etc
so that is uh some information that is good to know about
static documents
next let's talk about dashboards in quarto also very very easy
to create so i'm going to call this new dashboard qmd
and with dashboards when you know start it the same way
create these three dashes open and closed
I will make the format here specifically dashboard
and now we render this we see because we get nothing here
I should probably give it like a title at least so title
is my new dashboard run this one more time
we get a nice looking dashboard title banner and then I can start adding
some sections to my dashboard so maybe I have one
on movies by rating
versus number of votes and I'll pass in the same python code
that I had previously which is in the helpers file
so I could do from helpers import and let me just see what the function
was called I think it was one of the one that uses
plotly what was the one that uses plotly oh the
probably one actually was rendered inline but I could just do
like plot top movies by rating so I'll just call this
I think column one
or import plot top movies by rating I don't need a
because we're importing it from helpers I don't need to
pass in all the code and then we also want to
import pandas
and I also recommend maybe using pathlib I know previously I
used just the I know previously I just used a string to get my
data frame but I could do something like data
or file path equals
path to this specific file
we get the parent of this file we go into the data directory and grab
movies.csv but it's actually called tmdb
small let's confirm the with a capital s
and then I can get the data frame and maybe I actually want to do this
code before I actually get into
things
and then we can make this a little simpler
and all we have to do in this cell is import the function
and pass in the data frame we run this
okay it's yelling at me so I'm going to just do it the old fashioned way
oops run this
we see we get our movie here
if I add another plot here so I could also add
let's see what other functions we have access to
plot revenue versus budget how about we do that one
on this so we see this we see that each time we add
a new code block within this column so I guess this is actually a row
they get stacked side by side but if I added another row
and then let's add how about that python code
that created the scatter plot so right here we have it
I'm going to make a new python cell add this scatter plot close it up and so
now we see this
we see this takes up the full one because we've specified a row here
and every code cell that we put inside of this row will start stacking
so if I moved all this code over into our previous row and I know this
is quite small but I just want to show for example we
see we have three columns and it fills up the top and we can keep
doing this so I could add another row
and we see we get this
I guess we're being a little aggressive but you can
you know do all sorts of cool stuff with this another cool thing that you can do
so let's how about move one of these rows
to the top
and I'll zoom in again just so you can see
better
another cool thing that we have access to are what's known as value boxes
so if I do python and I specify that I want to
do a let's check value boxes real quick
so I'm going to go to dashboards I can just click on an example these
are the value boxes I'm talking about
so if I go to dashboards I'm in the gallery right now
if I click on source code we'll see that it does value boxes like
this so I'm going to just copy one of these
these icons are coming from the bootstrap icons
so if you look up bootstrap icons I'll put this in the description
you have access to all of these different icons
so we'll see that in one second but I want to copy all of this code
and go back to our dashboard
and I will paste in
looks like I screwed something up let's see does it look good
okay
run this
there's no function called get price so I could just do something like
how about 255 here I need to make sure that this is closed
and now we run this
we see a value box I could go ahead and copy this
paste a couple of these in
now we have three different value boxes I could very easily change up the icons
of these so go back to that chrome tab maybe I wanted an envelope for one
of these I just need to copy the name that we see
here I could look up something like you know maybe I wanted a flag
they have a lot of icons so to see how we embed those you just need to take
the name that we see here
so if I wanted to do flag for one of these
then maybe I wanted to do envelope for one of these
and then I could do things based off of our data frame
so I could do like number of movies so maybe I
said our title here is number of movies
and maybe that would just be length data frame
maybe this is average rating or something like that
I could then paste in you know data frame the column of vote
average and take the mean of that so we can start all doing you know
actual useful stuff here
I could do an f string that might make this helpful I do
float
actually it will be a float by default so I want to pass in
f string then there's this cool f string syntax I could do
2f to get it to just round to two decimals
run this we see we get the average rating of all of our movies
another thing we can do is right now this is row formatted
but I could easily change these to be the columns by doing
orientation and I could do instead columns
we get it looking like this another cool thing that you can do
is you can add different tabs so imagine that you wanted to have
one tab for comedy and all of the comedy movies were under that and one tab for
how about horror and so this is specified
specifically with a level one heading so we have comedy at level one heading
horror at a level one heading you know content here
now we see we have all the comedy stuff under that first heading one
we also could put a bunch of stuff under this section
this other heading so a lot of cool stuff that you can do with dashboards
very easily using this quarter markdown syntax we
could also add like titles nicely into some of these
certain graphs so I could let's say add a
title to this one by adding a parameter using the
pound pipe sign I could then add the caption
this is the revenue versus budget
and if we run this within a code cell
so if we add the title we see that it you know gives it this nice title
you can do that with any of these so you can kind of play around with different
parameters and make this really your own you include all your
python code a lot of cool stuff that you can do
with this
so next let's talk about slides in corto so I want to create a new file
called like new slideshow.qmd
and if I want to do a slideshow I bet the best format
that I recommend you can actually output it to like a powerpoint
output but I think that the easiest is to use the format
reveal.js and then basically we can have like title slides and then
you know section slides
and you know you can insert any sort of text in there and if I run this
we see what we get I could also add you know a title
a author just like we could with the other
types of docs
another thing that's useful to do is we can change our theme
so I think there's like a dark theme I'll share
on the screen a list of the different theme options
but yeah so we see now we have a dark theme so maybe you're
more of a fan of dark themes with the reveal.js format too you can easily like
go to a certain slide by clicking this bottom bar and we have this
progress bar that shows how far in the slideshow we are
which is pretty cool so if I look up slide themes
corto
you see we have reveal themes so you can do any of these
available themes and you can also customize them
as you see fit too if you want to by playing around with this
so this is on presentation slash reveal.js slash
themes dot html some things that I find particularly useful is let's say you had
a slideshow and you had some code in it
and let's say this does something like imports random
for i in range 10 we output some random integer from
1 to 100 if I run this
we see the output of that right here I could also include the code I think if I
do echo is true we should be able to see
the code alongside so we see that and nice it automatically like makes it
compatible with the dark background but one thing that's particularly cool is
that we could also do something like python and then I think we do
line or let's see I need to remember how to do this
I think it's line numbers equals one how about then
three to four and run this okay I messed it up let me just double
check this
okay this should actually be code dash line numbers
we can highlight certain codes at certain times so
I first highlight the first line then I highlight lines three and four
I could even then afterwards highlight all of my lines so
how about one two four so watch this highlight the first line highlight the
next lines highlight all the lines etc I think I
could easily turn off the line numbers so let's say
code line numbers I could say that's false
so now if I run this I think this is not working because this
is actually still this is a special class of python but if
I ran the python like this we don't see the
line numbers gonna make this true
we will see the line numbers
so this is the special class dot python
other things we could do is we could add lists
and we saw this previously but you can do dot incremental
show items one at a time with incremental
list surround that with close that fence now if I run this
we see it shows item one at a time with the incremental list
we could also do this with other elements like images or something so
image fragments
I can specify things as fragments so how about I specify
an image I can paste in some url I also could have these images locally
paste in my url I'm going to add the
dot fragment here and then I can do a dot fade in
and if we look at this
we see that it now fades in and we could do this with multiple
shreks so I could do another shrek and another shrek
and I could you know specify maybe that I wanted this to be a
column layout so I could do layout equals
33 33 33 and now instead this will all be right next to each other
instead of down so cool I could also say that I wanted
maybe this one to fade in first and so I would do a
I'm trying to think what the index is so I could pass in a
fragment index I could say that this is one
I think it's a if you pass this into all I think it will
we'll make this two and then we'll make the first one that's actually
you know farthest on the left we'll make this
equal to three run this middle one comes in first
the one on the right will come in second and then the
one on the left will come in third you could also like
you know tie these together so that they fade in at the same time if they have
the same index
so middle one's going to come in first and then because now the
left and right has the same index they come in together
you could also optionally like add instead of doing a layout you could add
like
custom widths and stuff so maybe this is 500 pixels
it's going to say the width is 500 pixels this should make a big shrek
over here on the right and doesn't let me
do the same I guess we removed the order but we got a bigger shrek
I could also like set the absolute position of
some of these so absolute I could do top equals 50 left
equals 50 I could make this one farther to the right and I think I had to do
that I would do dot absolute top equals left
equals farther to the left so we want it more to the right so I think if we do
left equals 500 this should be more to the right
okay let's see what that looks like
so this is pretty far to the right the first thing to fade in
this next one should be farther to the left we see it's kind of stacked
I could you know set the width of one of these
500 pixels so you do all sorts of organization of your images as you see
fit I always just look up you know as I've
kind of mentioned previously I go to the guide I look up the type of
format that I'm working on so reveal.js in this case
and I just see what the you know what it shares with me there to see kind of my
options I also find that looking at gallery
you know presentations as well as like this example presentation that they list
here on the docs is super super useful you can check out the source code here
I'll also link it in the description so you can see all sorts of different
things that you can do okay that's some of the basics on
slideshows
so tying this together we can actually create websites
here with corto as well so to do that I recommend starting with the kind of
index.qmd so I'm going to just say you know welcome to my website
here you can find some corto examples and then if we specify in our
corto.yaml file that this is a project of type
website and we give some website criteria here and so I'm following all
of this from the corto docs website so if we go to corto.org
slash docs slash websites we see we can get some useful stuff here I want to
just copy this website stuff here
I'm going to paste it in we can say our home page is equal to
index.qmd and now how about I do so I could just
render in an about page as this but I'm going to pass in like
our how about html report I'll pass in our
pdf report I don't know if the pdf report will work
perfectly because it is specifically needs to be html but I could pass in our
uh presentation.qmd I could pass in our
dashboard.qmd and now if we go back to that web page
we see that we can do corto preview to see our website so I'm going to do
corto preview
and we see we get a website I can click on
my so I guess it's giving the title based on
what title each of these qmds have so like the movie data analysis is
probably our dashboard I know this is our html report
we see that if we go to our corto crash course I think this is our slideshow
we see that on the web page
we can go to our dashboard this is a different dashboard but
it's also included in the repo all of this is on the website
this today we could very easily I think change the title of our website
oh I guess the website was called today so our
first corto website
I could do another corto preview
we see that we see our home page
in different sections and you can look at the documentation I would recommend
doing that to see all of your different options and whatnot
of what you can do with the websites as well as like
theming it when publishing it so we could publish it the same way I could
do you know go to posit connect cloud link
in the description and specify I want to publish a
corto and you know use primary file index.qmd and we should have success
doing that so that's websites really really quickly
real quick I want to just show a more advanced example
of parameterized reporting which is super super useful in the real world so
let's say you are doing a country analytics report
and you need to generate one for each country we can do that via parameterized
reports I'm going to just kind of show an example so I'm creating a
parameterized report.qmd and we'll use our movie data set so we'll
start writing some python code here so this will be
I'm going to call this top movies and we'll make a report based on all
these different genres and the format is html
and we need to now because this is going to be parameterized
we need to have our parameter special syntax at the top slightly different
for r but this is how we do it in python
tags parameters and then are going to our only
parameter here is maybe how about number
or num movies and genre
and we'll close that and then basically
we'll have top movies
in and then I'll just say python
genre
top movies and genre and then we need like five movies so
number five number four
number three number two number one and in each of those
uh let's say we want a little bit more code here I'm going to add my code to
the top just so it's a little bit neater
so we need some code to get the top movies
so what we could do is we want to get our data frames import
pandas as pd df equals pd dot read csv
and it is specifically in data slash tmdb small dot csv
I'm going to just print df head real quick
uh just to see what we're working with I'm going to run this cell
okay okay okay okay do we have a genre so I'm going to actually print out df
dot columns
here on the cell genres okay we have a John
Ruzz so let's look up what John Ruzz looks like
oh oops I just wanted to run this cell okay so it's like a string of get out
of here
run this cell it's like a string so we only want one genre I think we did this
previously in this code if I look at HTML report
uh there's a primary genre function so I'm going to just copy that code
primary genre and then how about we also lowercase this I
don't know if it's already lowercased
so I'm gonna real quick now look at primary genre
dot unique
and I can run this cell again
okay so I got a dot string dot lower I'm trying to make sure they're all
lowercase
okay we get this so now we have a nice list to work off of
so I'm going to just paste this as a comment
okay and now if we want to just get those movies that are in a certain genre
we could do df genre equals
when the primary genre is equal to the genre that we specify
and then the top movies in that genre are going to be
this list and we want to sort it and this is autocomplete is doing great
for us we want to grab the head so now let's
look at our I guess I'll call this top
movies
let's look at this real quick
our genre is not defined on this real quick
then run this cell okay we got our top movies I think
I'm going to actually do display I think this should work
oh and popularity is not what we want to sort it by we want to
I don't know what the popularity
column is necessarily I want to do vote average
okay so we see we get some movies are these sorted by
genre these are considered comedy that's crazy for parasite or this I
don't know this one
uh regardless uh we can do
you know python it's going to be top movies
dot luke four right so you get the fifth one and then let's say we wanted
to get the title from it and maybe we wanted to
also get the description so you'll see this work in a second
so let's look at our what our report looks like right now
I'm going to comment this line out temporarily just remove it real quick I
just want to see if this code is working to start
with
okay so we get that fifth video movie a dog's will and I could also add what is
the column called with description
I'm going to look up the
columns again
I'm looking for
overview that will work
so I could do something like surround this maybe with bold text
I think that this should work and then maybe I add the description
overview
run this
look at that and then I could do I want to echo to be false I don't want
to see all this code on the screen
look at that and now we can copy basically the same code for all of our
other reports
make this three make this three make this two make this two make this
one make this one and make this zero and zero and now we look at this
we run it we get all of our different movies and like the descriptions of the
movies I love this Forrest Gump great movie and that's for comedy specifically
but cool thing is we could very easily go ahead and do a quarto render
parameterized report dot qmd dash p and now we want to set how about
you could also play around with the number of movies that would be a guess a
challenge for here is how could you dynamically set the number of movies
challenge for here is how could you dynamically do all this instead of doing
it kind of hard-coded like we have right now so number of movies isn't really
useful here yet but genre and now I make it how about western
we'll see this all update
so if I refresh this we see the top movies in western we could
even do something like
genre dot capitalize
run this again
I just noticed that our core yaml is still going crazy over here because we
added the website stuff so I'm just gonna remove that temporarily
okay
we could run it again doing
genre equals how about action or let's see what options we have
action that seems good
refresh this
top gun maverick actually I don't I don't know if I've seen top gun maverick
that's pretty bad cool and you could even do like a python
script now if you want to get really into it I
could do like generate all reports
I could run for or like genres
generate all reports dot py this should be called
genres equals in our
parameterized report we'll just copy all these genres
so we have a list of all these genres
oh shoot
you could print this out nicely as a list
I'm just going to do it manually as a one-time thing
okay so we have all of our genres I could do a for i
in genre preferred genre in genres
we could run the command insert python code to run the command
corto render parameterized report
genre genre
so we could run this using the os library
uh passing the parameter and we can also give it an output name
I forget exactly how to do output names let's just look up
corto render dash
h
so we give it a name
I think we do dash dash output let's see what output
output yeah output so we're going to do dash dash output
and we'll call this how about genre dot html
this is an f string so we're able to do this stuff so now if I run this
we should be able to generate all these reports so we would currently look at
our output we see you know there's no special name or
anything but if I run this
uh parameterize how do we spell that parameterize
dash report did I spell that correct come on cross my fingers run this
we see it doing work
I would open this up in the finder if we look at all the new
reports that we have
we see documentary dot html romance dot html so like what are the top
romance ones open that up five feet apart Gabriel's
Inferno never heard of it if I open up war
we got there fury Guy Ritchie's Covenant 1917 so these are
just based on the vote average the top movies
if we look up animation what do we have there
cool and yeah you might you might want to maybe make a
something with like having to have a higher vote count too
to to really make this a um
a more interesting reports but it is really cool to see all these different
html reports that we have that we generated using uh this
simple python script in combination with Corda so
that's some you know a kind of advanced topic that I use a lot in the real world
that can be super super helpful with Cordo
all right we covered a lot in this video we covered
you know kind of the basics of setup and installation with Corto
and then we started seeing how we can generate different types of outputs
using the same QMD or IPython notebook files
this is only really scratching the surface of all the possibilities with
Corto but I hope it is a good launching point
that you can kind of build off of and take
and and adapt to your own projects if there are certain topics that we didn't
cover in this video that you would love to
learn more about we're always looking we're always looking for
recommendations so leave those down in the comments
if you did enjoy this video it would mean a lot if you like it
and also subscribe to the channel to not miss future videos like this one
thank you all for watching until next time peace out